Q1) Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 
Query: 
select title 
    from Movie 
 where director = 'Steven Spielberg';

Q2) Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order. 
Query:
select distinct year 
    from Movie m join Rating r 
        on m.mID = r.mID and r.stars >=4 
            order by year; 

Q3) Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings. 
Query:
select title from Movie where mID not in (select mID from Rating);

Q4) Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date.
Query:
select name 
from Reviewer r join Rating s
on r.rID = s.rID and s.ratingDate is NULL

Q5)Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 
Query:
select name , title , stars, ratingDate 
from Reviewer r
left join Rating s on r.rID = s.rID
left join Movie m on s.mID = m.mID 
order by name , title, stars

Q6) For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie. 
Query:
select rv.name , m.title 
from Rating r1 join Rating r2
on r1.rID = r2.rID and r1.mID = r2.mID and r1.ratingDate > r2.ratingDate and r1.stars > r2.stars
join Movie m on m.mID = r1.mID 
join Reviewer rv on rv.rID = r1.rID

Q7) For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title. 
Query:
select m.title, sub.stars 
from Movie m , (select max(stars) as stars, mID from Rating group by mid) sub 
where m.mID = sub.mID order by m.title 

Q8) For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 
Query:
select distinct m.title , sub.diff 
from Movie m,
    (select r1.mID , r1.stars  - r2.stars as diff
        from Rating r1 , Rating r2 
            where r1.stars = (select max(stars) from Rating r3 where r3.mID = r1.mID ) 
            and r2.stars = (select min(stars) from Rating r4 where r4.mID = r2.mID )
                and r1.mID = r2.mID and r1.stars > r2.stars) sub
where sub.mID = m.mID order by sub.diff desc 

Q9) Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.)
Query:
select abs(avg(avg_before)- avg(avg_after)) 
from 
(select avg(stars) avg_before 
    from Rating r join Movie m on m.mID = r.mID and m.year < 1980 group by r.mID) , 
(select avg(stars) avg_after 
    from Rating r join Movie m on m.mID = r.mID and m.year > 1980 group by r.mID)